-- About me --

This is a knowledge card based storage website. Users are able to:

Upload 'Knowledge Cards' which are little clusters of information about something. Knowledge Cards have
    a picture (CardImage)
    title
    category
    description
    summary
    tags

Users are able to see all their Knowledge Cards. Users can search for and filter knowledge cards by keyword and by similarity to a query image.

Users Knowledge Cards are stored in a sqlite3 database. Images are stored in an AWS S3 bucket. Instance is deployed via AWS EC2.

-- How to Build --

python3 manage.py runserver 0.0.0.0:8000

or start and access AWS EC2 instance



Code that I have written (technical details, more information in report):

-- _save_images -- 

Here, I modified the code to allow the histogram attribute to be saved in storage for knowledge cards.

This allows the compare_image_similarity function to simply reference the stored color histogram information from the knowledge card instead of computing it again every time.

-- image_search --

The code I have implemented in this function will loop through all CardImages existing in the database, and obtain the stored histogram signature. It will then record every cards histogram similarity to the provided image query histogram.

Then, I simply sort the cards ranked by how similar they are to the query image in descending order and select the IMAGE_TOP_K to report back in the application.

-- apply_keyword_search --

In this function, I do 3 queryset filters: one that filters the title for the keyword, another that filters the tags for the keyword, and finally one that filters the description for the keyword. I have a list (attributes_to_check) that allows you to change the columns that you filter for easily.

Then, with all of those query sets, I simply merge them using the | operator which will remove any non-unique values in the queryset, and with that, I return the filtered queryset. This operation as a whole is effectively a large SQL OR operation. 

-- log_database_knowledgecards --

This is a very straightforward function that uses the sqlite3 python library to output the values in the cards_knowledgecard table.

This will log all existing knowledge cards in the application, which demonstrates that there is an active, updated database in the application.

-- compare_image_similarity --

This function uses the provided code in the image_similarity_example.zip file. 

To get information from the image, it will use the provided compute_color_histogram_signature function, which will return comma separated values in a string (the histogram signatures). This is information gathered from the file that will compress and normalize the RGB channels of the image into various clusters, separated by commas, allowing a more compact representation of the image useful for comparison.

Using the histogram signatures generated by the compute_color_histogram_signature function, the compare_image_similarity function will separate the 2 histogram signatures into lists and then compute the dot product to see how "different" they are from each other. It uses the cosine similarity for this, which will effectively look at the two vectors that the histogram signatures create and measure how close they are to each other. At its core, this function will compare the clusters of colors in two images to see if they are similar to each other.

-- delete_image_from_s3 --

When a Knowledge Card is deleted, the CardImage is deleted as well, but there is no built in support to automatically delete the image that is being referenced by the CardImage upon deletion. What then would happen is that a CardImage is created and an image uploaded to S3, but upon the CardImage's deletion, the S3 image will stay, even though it's not being referenced by anything.

In order to fix this, I made a new signals.py file and created the delete_image_from_s3 function, which will wait for a deletion of a CardImage and will subsequently delete the S3 image.

-- other changes --

I have modified the CardImage class slightly to include the histogram attribute to be saved and retrieved later

I have modified the apps.py file to include proper handling for signals through the ready function



